# What is Amazon API Gateway?

Amazon API Gateway is an AWS service for:

* Creating
* Maintaining
* Monitoring
* Securing

REST, HTTP, and WebSocket APIs at any scale.

**What does API Gateway create?**

It creates RESTful APIs that:

* Are HTTP-based.
* Enable stateless client-server communication.
* Implement standard HTTP methods such as GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, and DELETE.

**What kind of WebSocket APIs does API Gateway create?**

API Gateway creates WebSocket APIs that:

* Adhere to the WebSocket protocol, which enables stateful, full-duplex communication between client and server.
* Route incoming messages based on message content.

## Architecture of API Gateway

**What does API Gateway handle?**

API Gateway handles all the tasks involved in accepting and processing up to hundreds of thousands of concurrent API calls.

**What do these tasks include?**

These tasks include:

* Traffic management.
* Authorization and access control.
* Monitoring.
* API version management.

## Features of API Gateway

* Support for stateful (WebSocket) and stateless (HTTP and REST) APIs.
* Powerful, flexible authentication mechanisms, such as AWS Identity and Access Management policies, Lambda authorizer functions, and Amazon Cognito user pools.
* Developer portal for publishing your APIs.
* Canary release deployments for safely rolling out changes.
* CloudTrial logging and monitoring of API usage and API changes.
* CloudWatch access logging and execution logging, including the ability to set alarms.
* Ability to use AWS CloudFormation templates to enable API creation.
* Support for custom domain names.
* Integration with AWS WAF for protecting your APIs against common web exploits.
* Integration with AWS X-Ray for understanding and triaging performance latencies.


For a complete list of API Gateway feature releases, see [Document history](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/history.html).

## Accessing API Gateway

* **AWS Management Console:** The AWS Management Console provides a web interface for creating and managing APIs.

**When you can access the API Gateway console?**

After you complete the steps in [Prerequisites for getting started with API Gateway](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/setting-up.html)

**Where you can access the API Gateway console?**

You can access the API Gateway console at [https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway](https://console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway)

* **AWS SDKs**
* **API Gateway V1 and V2 APIs**
* **AWS Command Line Interface**
* **AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell**

## Part of AWS serverless infrastructure

**What can you use to make an app able to call available AWS services?**

For an app to call publicly available AWS services, you can use Lambda to interact with required services and expose Lambda functions through API methods in API Gateway.

**Where does Lambda run your code?**

AWS Lambda runs your code on a highly available computing infrastructure.

**What does a Lambda do?**

It performs the necessary execution and administration of computing resources.

**What does API Gateway support to enable serverless applications?**

To enable serverless applications, API Gateway supports[streamlined proxy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/api-gateway-set-up-simple-proxy.html) with AWS Lambda and HTTP endpoints

## How to get started with Amazon API Gateway

