# API Gateway use cases

## Use API Gateway to create REST APIs

**What is an API Gateway REST API made up of?**

An API Gateway REST API is made up of:

* Resources
* Methods

**What is a resource?**

A resource is a logical entity that an app can access through a resource path.

**What's a method?**

A method corresponds to a REST API request that is submitted by the user of your API and the response returned to the user. A combination of a resource path and an operation identifies a method of the API.

**By what means does the API interface with the backend?**

The API interfaces with the backend by means of *integration requests* and *integration responses*.

**What you can do to to route the integration response to an appropiate method response (of a given HTTP status code) to the client?**

To route the integration response to an appropiate method response (of a given HTTP status code) to the client, you can configure the integration response to map required response parameters from integration to method.

API Gateway provides REST API management functionality such as the following:

* Support for generating SDKs and creating API documentation using API Gateway extensions to OpenAPI
* Throttling of HTTP requests

## Use API Gateway to create HTTP APIs

**Where you can send request to with HTTP APIs?**

You can use HTTP APIs to send requests to:

* AWS Lambda functions
* Any publicly routable HTTP endpoint

**What types of authorizations does HTTP API support?**

* OpenID Connect
* OAuth 2.0

## Use API Gateway to create WebSocket APIs

## Who uses API Gateway?

**What kind of user can create API Gateway functions?**

The API developer must be an IAM user in the AWS account that owns the API

## Creating and managing an API Gateway API

**What's named the API Gateway service component for API management?**

The API Gateway service component for API management, named `apigateway`, to create, configure, and deploy an API.

**As an API developer, how can you create and manage an API?**

As an API developer, you can create and manage an API by using the API Gateway console.

## Calling an API Gateway API

**Why does an app developer work with the API Gateway service component?**

An app developer works with the API Gateway service component for API execution, named `execute-api`

**How are the underlying programming entities exposed?**

The underlying programming entities are exposed by the created API.