# What is IAM?

AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) is a web service that helps you securely control access to AWS resources.

**What is an AWS account root user?**

When you create an AWS account, you begin with one sign-in identity that has complete access to all AWS services and resources in the account.

**How is the AWS account root accessed?**

The root user account is accessed by signing in with the email address and password that you used to create the account.

# IAM features

**Shared access to your AWS account:** You can grant other people permission to administer and use resources in your AWS account without having to share your password or access key.

**Granular permissions:** You can grant different permissions to different people for different resources.

**Secure access to AWS resources for applications that run on Amazon EC2:** You can use IAM features to securely provide credentials for applications that run on EC2 instances. These credentials provide premissions for your application to access other AWS resources.

**Multi-factor authentication (MFA):** You can add two-factor authentication to your account and to individual users for extra security.

**Identity federation:** You can allow users who already have passwords elsewhere -- for example, in your corporate network or with an internet identity provider -- to get temporary access to your AWS account.

**Identity information for assurance:** If you use [AWS CloudTrail](), you receive log records that include information about those who made requests for resources in your account. That information is based on IAM identities.

**PCI DSS Compliance:** IAM supports the processing, storage, and transmission of credit card data by a merchant or service provider, and has been validated as being compliant with Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard (DSS).

**Integrated with many AWS services:**

**Eventually Consistent:** IAM, like many other AWS services, is [eventually consistent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eventual_consistency). We recommend that you do not include such IAM changes in the critical, high-availability code paths of your application. Instead, make IAM changes in a separate initialization or setup routine that you run less frequently (?). Also, be sure to verify that the changes have been propagated before production workflows depend on them.

**Free to use:**

## Accessing IAM

* AWS Management Console

* AWS Command Line Tools

* AWS SDKs

* **IAM Query API**

You can access IAM and AWS programmatically by using the IAM Query API, which lets you issue HTTPS requests directly to the service. When you use the Query API, you must include code to digitally sign requests using your credentials.

