# When do I use IAM?

## When you are performing differnt job functions

How you use IAM differs, depending on the work that you do in AWS.

* Service user - If you use an AWS service to do your job, then your administrator provides you with the credentials and permissions that you need.

* Service administrator - If you're in charge of an AWS resource at your company, you probably have full access to IAM.

* IAM administrator - If you're an IAM administrator, you manage IAM identities and write policies to manage access to IAM.

## When you are authorized to access AWS resources

## When you sign-in as an IAM user

**What is an IAM user?**

An [IAM user](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_users.html) is an identity within your AWS account that has specific permissions for a single person or application.

Obs: Where possible, we recommend relying on temporary credentials instead of creating IAM users who have long-term credentials such as passwords and access keys. However, if you have specific use cases that require long-term credentials with IAM users, we recommend that you rotate access keys.

**What's an IAM group?**

An [IAM group](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_groups.html) is an identity that specifies a collection of IAM users.

**Can you sign in as an IAM group?**

- [] Yes
- [x] No

**What you can use an IAM group for?**

You can use groups to specify permissions for multiple users at a time.

**What's the difference between users and roles?**

Users have permanent long-term credentials, but roles provide temporary credentials.

## When you assume an IAM role

**What's an IAM role?**

An [IAM role]() is an identity within your AWS account that has specific permissions. It is similar to an IAM user, but is not associated with a specific person.

**When are IAM roles with temporary credentials useful?**

IAM roles with temporary credentials are useful in the following situations:

* **Federated user access:** To assign permissions to a federated identity, you create a role and define permissions for the role.
* **Temporary IAM user permissions:** An IAM user or role can assume an IAM role to temporarily take on different permissions for a specific task.
* **Cross-account access:** You can use an IAM role to allow someone (a trusted principal) in a different account to access resources in your account.

**What is the primary way to grant cross account access?**

Roles are the primary way to grant cross-account access.

**With some AWS resources you can attach a policy directly to a resource (instead of using a role as a proxy)**

- [] Yes
- [x] No

* **Cross-service access:**

**What might a service use to use features in other AWS services?**

A service might use features in other AWS services by:

1. calling principal's permission.
2. use a service role.
3. use a service-liked role.

    * **Forward access sessions (FAS):**
    **When are you considered a principal?**

    When you use an IAM user or role to perform actions in AWS.

    **Where does a FAS use permissions from?**

    FAS uses the permissions of the principal calling an AWS service, combined with the requesting AWS service to make requeststo downstream services.

    **When are FAS requests made?**

    FAS requests are only made when a service receives a request that requires interactions with other AWS services or resources to complete.

    * **Service role:** A service role is an IAM  role that a service assumes to perform actions on your behalf.

    * **Service-linked role:** A service-linked role is a type of service role that is linked to an AWS service. Ther service can assume the role to perform an actions on your behalf.

    **Who owns the service-linked role?**

    Service-linked roles are owned by the service.

* **Applications running on Amazon EC2:** You can use an IAM role to manage temporary credentials for applications that are running on an EC2 instance and making AWS CLI or AWS API requests.

## When you create policies and permissions

**How do you grant a user permissions?**

You grant permissions to a user by creating a policy, which is a document that lists the actions that a user can perform and the resources those actions can affect.

**Any actions or resources that are not explicitly allowed are denied by default**

- [x] Yes
- [] No

What policies are used with an IAM role:

* **Trust policy:** Defines which principals can assume the role, and under which conditions.

**What is a trust policy for IAM roles?**

A trust policy is a specific type of resource-based policy for IAM roles.

**How many trust policies can an IAM role have?**

A role can have only one trust policy.

* **Identity-based policies (inline and managed):** These policies define the permissions that the user of the role is able to perform (or is denied from performing), and on which resources.

**Where do you assign permissions sets if you are using IAM Identity Center to manage your users?**

If you are using IAM Identity Center to manage your users, you assing permission sets in IAM Identity Center instead of attaching a permissions policy to a principal.

**What does IAM identity Center do when you assign a permission set to a group or user in AWS Identity Center?**

When you assign a permission set to a group or user in AWS Identity Center, IAM Identity Center creates corresponding IAM roles in each account, and attaches the policies specified in the permission set to those roles.

**What manages the roles?**

IAM Identity Center manages the role, and allows the authorized users you've defined to assume the role.

**What does IAM Identity Center do if you modify the permission set?**

IAM Identity Center ensures that the corresponding IAM policies and roles are updated accordingly.

