# How IAM works

## Terms

IAM Resource
  IAM resources are stored in IAM. You can add, edit, and remove them from IAM.
  * user
  * group
  * role
  * policy
  * identity-provider object

IAM Entity
  IAM resources that AWS uses for authentication. Entities can be specified as a Principal in a resource-based policy.
  * user
  * policy

IAM Identity
  An IAM resource that can be authorized in policies to perform actions and to access resources. Identities include users, groups, and roles.

Principals
  A person or application that uses the AWS account root user, an IAM user, or an IAM role to sign in and make requests to AWS. Principals include federated users and assumed roles.

Human users
  Also known as _human identities_; the people administrators, developers, operators, and consumers of your applications.

Workload
  A collection of resources and code that delivers business value, such as an application or backend process. Can include applications, operational tools, and components.

## Principal

A _principal_ is a human user or workload that can make a request for an action or operation on an AWS resource.

After authentication, can the principal be granted either permanent or temporary credentials to make requests to AWS?

- [x] Yes
- [] No

**What does the permanent or temporary credentials grant depend from?**

It depends from teh principal type.

**What type of credentials do IAM users and root get granted?**

IAM users and root user are granted permanent credentials.

**What type of credentials do roles get granted?**

Roles are granted temporary credentials.

**As a best practice, what type of credentials you should require to human users and workloads?**

As a best practice, we recommend that you require human users and workloads to access AWS resources using temporary credentials.

## Request

**What inforation does the request include?**

* **Actions or operations:** The actions or operations that the principal wants to perform.

This can be:
* An action in the AWS Management Console
* An operation in the AWS CLI or AWS API.

* **Resources:** The AWS resource object upon which the actions or operations are performed.

* **Principal:** The person or application that used an entity (user or role) to send the request.

Information about the principal includes the policies that are associated with the entity that the principal used to sign in.

* **Environment data:** Information about the IP address, user agent, SSL enabled status, or the time of day.

* **Resource data:** Data related to the resource that is being requested. This can include information such as:
  - DynamoDB table name or tag on an Amazon EC2 instance.

**Where does AWS gathers the request information?**

AWS gathers the request information into a _request context_, which is used to evaluate and authorize the request.

## Authentication

**Must a principal be authenticated (signed in to AWS) using their credentials to send a request to AWS?**

- [x] Yes
- [] No

**How must a principal be to send a request to AWS?**

- [x] Authenticated
- [] Unauthenticated
- [] Either way

**How do you authenticate as a root user from the console?**

To authenticate from the console as a root user, you must sign in with your email address and password.

**How are you authenticated as a federated user?**

As a federated user, you are authenticated by your identity provider and granted access to AWS resources by assuming IAM roles.

**What do you provide to sign in as a IAM user?**

As an IAM user, provide your account ID or alias, and then your user name and password.

**What you might use to to authenticate workloads?**

To authenticate workloads from the API or AWS CLI, you might use temporary credentials through being assigned a role or you might use long-term credentials by providing your access key and secret key.

**What does AWS recommend as a best practice to increase the security of your account?**

As a best practice, AWS recommends that you use multi-factor authentication (MFA) and temporary credentials to increase the security of your account.

## Authorization

**What does AWS use during the authorization?**

During authorization, AWS uses values from the request context to check for policies to determine whether to allow or deny the request.

**How are most of the policies stored in AWS?**

Most policies are stored in AWS as JSON documents and specify the permissions for the principal entities.

**What do you need to provide your users with permissions to access the AWS resources in their own account?**

To provide your users with permissions to access the AWS resources in their own account, you need only identity-based policies # investigated more type of policies to make it multiple-selection

**What type of policiy is popular for granting cross-account access?**

Resource-based policies are popular for granting cross-account access.

**What does AWS do if a single permissions policy includes a denied action?**

If a single permissions policy includes a denied action, AWS denies the entire request and stops evaluating.

**What rules does the evaluation logic for a request within a single account follow?**

* By default, all requests are denied. (requests made using the AWS account root user credentials for resources in the account are always allowed).

* An explicit allow in any permissions policy (identity-based or resource-based) overrides this default.

* The existence of an Organization SCP, IAM permissions boundary, or a session policy overrides the allow. If one or more of these policy types exists, they must all allow the request.

* An explicit deny in any policy overrides any allows.

## Actions or operations

## Resources

