# Overview of AWS identity management: Users

**What is the main difference between IAM users and federate users?**

The main difference between the two is that IAM users are granted long-term credentials to your AWS resources while users in IAM Identity Center have temporary credentials that are stablished each time the user signs-in to AWS.

**As a best practice, what should you require to human users to access AWS?**

As a best practice, require human users to use federation with an identity provider to access AWS using temporary credentials insted of as an IAM user.

**What is a primary use for an IAM user?**

A primary use for IAM users is to give workloads that cannot use IAM roles the ability to make programmatic requests to AWS services using the API or CLI.

## First-time access only: Your root user credentials

**What can restrict the permissions that are granted to the root user?**

Only service control policies (SCPs) in organizations can restrict the permissions that are granted to the root user.

## IAM users and suers in IAM Identity Center

**Are IAM users separate accounts from your account?**

- [] Yes
- [x] No

IAM users are not separate accounts; they are users within your account.

**IAM users are granted long-term credentials to your AWS resources?**

- [x] Yes
- [] No

**What kind of crendentials are granted to IAM users?**

- [] Short-term credentials
- [x] Long-term credentials

**As a best practice, what kind of credentials should be created for human users?**

- [x] Short-term credentials
- [] Long-term credentials

As a best practice, do not create IAM users with long-term credentials for your human users.

**What's recommended for scenarios in which you need IAM users with programmatic access and long-term credentials?**

For scenarios in which you need IAM users with programmatic access and long-term credentials, we recommend that you update access keys when needed.

**What kind of credentials are granted to users in AWS Identity Center?**

- [x] Short-term credentials
- [] Long-term credentials

## Federating existing users

**If you already have in your organization a way to be authenticated, do you need to create a separate IAM user in IAM identity Center for them?**

- [] Yes
- [x] No

**What cases are federation usefor for?**

* **Your users already exist in a corporate directory**

* **Your users already have internet identities**

If you are creating a mobile app or web-based app that can let users identify themselves through an Internet identity provider.

**What is recommended to use identity federation with Internet identity providers?**

To use identity federation with Internet identity providers, we recommend you use Amazon Cognito

## Access control methods

**Why would I use Single sign-on access for human users?**

IAM Identity Center provides a central place that brings together administration of users and their access to AWS accounts and cloud applications.

You can set up and identity store within IAM Identity Center or you can configure federation with an existing identity provider (IdP).

Users have an easier sign-in experience and you mainting control over their access to resources from a single system.

**Why would I use Federated access for human users?**

IAM supports IdPs that are compatible with OpenID Connect (OIDC) or SAML 2.0.

**Why would I use Cross-account access between AWS account?**

You want to share access to certain AWS resources with users in other AWS accounts.

**What's the primary way to grant cross-account access?**

Roles are the primary way to grant cross-account access.

**What are resource-based policies?**

some AWS services allow you to attach a policy directly to a resource (instead of using a role as a proxy).

**Why would I use Long-term credentials for designated IAM users in your AWS account?**

You might have specific uses cases that require long-term credentials with IAM users in AWS. E.g.:

* Workloads that cannot use IAM roles
* Third-party AWS clients that require programmatic access through access keys.
* Service-specific credentials for AWS CodeCommit or Amazon Keyspaces

**What is recommended as a best practice in scenarios in which you need IAM users with programmatic access and long-term credentials?**

We recommend that you update access keys when needed.