# Overview of access management: Permissions and policies

**What's a principal entity?**

A principal entity is a person or application that is authenticated using an IAM entity (user or role).

**What's a policy?**

A policy is an object in AWS that, when associated with an identity or resource, defines their permissions.

## Policies and accounts

**What's recommended if you own multiple accounts?**

If you own multiple accounts, it's recommended to use the AWS Organizations service.

## Policies and users

**When you create an IAM user, they can access anything in your account?**

- [] Yes
- [x] No

When you create an IAM user, they can't access anything in your account until you give them permission.

**How do you give permissions to a user?**

You give permissions to a user by creating an identity-based policy.

## Policies and groups

## Federated users and roles

**How do you assign permissions to federated users?**

To assign permissions to federated users, you can create an entity referred to as _role_ and define permissions for the role.

## Identity-based and resource-based policies

**What is an identity-based policy?**

Identity-based policies are permissions policies that you attach to an IAM identity.

* **Managed policies**

    * **AWS managed policies -**

    * **Customer managed policies -**

**What policy provides more precise control over your policies?**

- [] AWS managed policies
- [x] Customer managed policies

**What you can do with customer managed policies?**

You can create, edit, and validate an IAM policy in the visual editor or by creating the JSON policy document directly.

    * **Inline policies** Policies that you create and manage and that are embedded directly into a single user, group, or role.

**Resource-based policies** control wha actions a specified principal can perform on that resource and user what conditions.

**What type of policy is a resource-based policy?**

- [x] Inline policies
- [] 

**Are there any managed resource-base policies?**

- [] Yes
- [x] No

**How can you enable cross-account access?**

To enable cross-account access, you can specify an entire account or IAM entities in another account as the principal in a resource-based policy.

**What's the only type of resource-based that the IAM service supports?**

The IAM service supports only one type of resource-based policy called a role _trust_ policy, which is attached to an IAM role.

**What type of policy you must attach to an IAM role?**

- [] Trust policy
- [] Identity-based policy
- [x] Both

Because an IAM role is both an identity and a resource that supports resource-based policies, you must attach both a trust policy and an identity-based policy to an IAM role.

**What do trust policies define?**

Trust policies define which principal entities (accounts, users, roles, and federated users) can assume the role.