# What is ABAC for AWS?

Attribute-based access control (ABAC) is an authorization strategy that defines permissions based on attributes.

**How are these attributes called in AWS?**

In AWS, these attributes are called tags.

**What you can attach the tags to?**

You can attach tags to IAM resources, including IAM entities (users and roles) and to AWS resources.

- [] IAM resources
- [] IAM entities (users and roles)
- [] AWS resouces
- [x] All above

**What can these ABAC policies be designed to?**

These ABAC policies can be designed to allow operations when the principal's tag matches the resource tag.

**When is ABAC helpful?**

ABAC is helpful in environments that are growing rapidly and helps with situations where policy management becomes cumbersome.

## Comparing ABAC to the traditional RBAC model

**What does RBAC (Role-based Access Control) define permission base on?**

RBAC defines permissions based on a person's job function, known outside of AWS as a role.

**What's the disadvantage of using RBAC model?**

The disadvantage to using the traditional RBAC model is that when employees add new resources, you must update policies to allow access to those resources.

**ABAC provides the following advantages over the traditional RBAC model:**

* **ABAC permissions scale with innovation.** It's no longer necessary for an admnistrator to update existing policies to allow access to new resources.

* **ABAC requires fewer policies.** Because you don't have to create different job functions, you create fewer policies.

**What policies model do you create fewer policies with?**

- [] RBAC
- [x] ABAC

* **Using ABAC, teams can change and grow quickly.** This is because permissions for new resources are automatically granted based on attributes.

* **Granular permissions are possible using ABAC.** When you create policies, it's a best practice to grant least privilege.

* **Use employee attributes from your corporate directory with ABAC.** You can configure your SAML or OIDC provider to pass session tags to AWS.