# How does AWS CloudFormation work?

When creating a stack, AWS CloudFormation makes underlying service calls to AWS to provision and configure your resources.

**What actions can CloudFormation perform?**

CloudFormation can only perform actions that you have permission to do.

**How are calls that CloudFormation make declared?**

The calls that CloudFormation makes are all declared by your template.

1. Use the [AWS CloudFormation Designer](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/designer) or your own text editor to create or modify a CloudFormation template in JSON or YAML format. You can also choose to use a provided template.
2. Save the template locally or in an Amazon S3 bucket.
3. Create a CloudFormation stack by specifying the location of your template file. If the template contains parameters, you can specify input values when you create the stack.

**How can you create stacks?**

* [console](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/en_us/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/cfn-console-create-stack.html)
* [CreateStack](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/APIReference/API_CreateStack.html) API operation
* [create-stack](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/cloudformation/create-stack.html) AWS CLI command

**Where does CloudFormation upload the template if you specify a template file stored locally?**

If you specify a template file stored locally, CloudFormation uploads it to an S3 bucket in your AWS account.

**What does CloudFormation for each region you upload a template file?**

CloudFormation creates a bucket for each region in which you upload a template file.

**What does happen if a bucket created by CloudFormation is already present?**

If a bucket created by CloudFormation is already present, the template is added to that bucket.

## Updating a stack with change sets

**What can you do when you need to update your stacks's resources?**

When you need to update your stack's resources, you can modify the stack's template.

**For updating your stack's resources, do you need to delete a create a new one?**

- [ ] Yes
- [x] No

A: You don't need to create a new stack and delete the old one.

```
**Important**
Updates can cause interruptions. Depending on the resource and properties that you are updating, an update might interrupt or even replace an existing resource.
```

```
**Important**
Change sets don't indicate whether your stack update will be successful. For example, a change set doesn't check if you will surpass an account quota, if you're updating a resource that doesn't support updates, or if you have insufficient permissions to modify a resource, which can cause a stack update to fail.
```

**What will CloudFormation do with the change set?**

CloudFormation updates your stack by updating **only** the resources that you modified and signals that your stack has been successfully updated.

**What will CloudFormation do if the update fails?**

If the stack updates fails, CloudFormation rolls back changes to restore the stack to the last known working state.

## Deleting a stack

**How can you delete stacks?**

You can delete stacks using:

* [console]()
* [DeleteStack]() API operation
* [delete-stack]() AWS CLI command

**What does CloudFormation do when you delete a stack?**

CloudFormation deletes the stack and all the resources in that stack.