# NoSQL design for DynamoDB

## Differences between relational data design and NoSQL

## Two key concepts for NoSQL design

### How NoSQL design is different

### Approaching NoSQL design

**What fundamental properties is it important to understand before you begin?**

* **Data size:** Knowing how much data will be stored and requested at one time will help determine the most effective way to partition the data.
* **Data shape:** Instead of reshaping data when a query is processed (as an RDBMS system does), a NoSQL database organizes data so that its shape in the database corresponds with what will be queried. This is a key factor in increasing speed and scalability.
* **Data velocity.** DynamoDB scales by increasing the number of physical partitions that are available to process queries, and by efficiently distributing data across those partitions. Knowing in advance what the peak query loads will be might help determine how to partition data to best use I/O capacity.

After you identify specific query requirements, you can organize data according to general principles that govern performance:

* **Keep related data together.** Keeping related data in close proximity has a major impact on cost and performance. Instead of distributing related data items across multiple tables, you should keep related items in your NoSQL system as close together as possible.
As a general rule, you should maintain as few tables as possible in a DynamoDB application.
Exceptions are cases where high-volume time series data are involved, or datasets that have very different access patterns. A single table with inverted indexes can usually enable simple queries to create and retrieve the complex hierarchical data structures required by your application.

* **Use sort order.** Related items can be grouped together and queried efficiently if their key design causes them to sort together. This is an important NoSQL design strategy.

* **Distribute queries.** It is also important that a high volume of queries not be focused on one part of the database, where they can exceed I/O capacity. Instead, you should design data keys to distribute traffic evenly across partitions as much as possible, avoiding "hot spots".

* **Use global secondary indexes.** By creating specific global secondary indexes, you can enable different queries than your main table can support, and that are still fast and relatively inexpensive.

## NoSQL Workbench for DynamoDB

