# AWS KMS concepts

## AWS KMS keys

**What are KMS keys?**

AWS KMS keys (KMS keys) are the primary resource in AWS KMS.
An AWS KMS key is a logical representation of a cryptographic key.

**What you can use KMS keys for?**

You can use a KMS key to encrypt, decrypt, and re-encrypt data. It can also generate data keys that you can use outside of AWS KMS.

**What will you typically use to encrypt?**

Typically, you'll use [symmetric encryption KMS keys]()

```
Note
AWS KMS is replacing the term customer master key (CMK) with AWS KMS key and KMS key. The concept has not changed. To prevent breaking changes, AWS KMS is keeping some variations of this term.
```

**What are some metadata contained in a KMS key?**

* key ID
* [key spec]()
* [key usage]()
* creation date
* description
* [key state]()

Most importantly, it contains a reference to the [key material]()

**How can you create a KMS key?**

You can create a KMS key with cryptographic key material generated in AWS KMS [FIPS validated hardware security modules]()

**How does the key material for symmetric KMS keys and the private keys of assymetric KMS key leave AWS KMS?**

The key material for symmetric KMS keys and the private keys of assymetric KMS key never leaves AWS KMS unencrypted.

**What you must use to manage your KMS keys?**

To use or manage your KMS keys, you must use AWS KMS.

**By default, what does AWS KMS create the key material for?**

By default, AWS KMS creates the key material for a KMS key.

**What you can't do with a key material?**

You cannot extract, export, view, or manage this key material. Also, you cannot delete this key material; you must [delete the KMS key]()

**What the only exception for that rule?**

The only exception is the public key of an asymmetric key pair, which you can export for use outside of AWS.

**Can you import your own key materiale into a KMS key?**

- [x] Yes
- [] No

**What does [multi-Region keys]() allow?**

AWS KMS multi-Region keys let you encrypt data in one AWS Region and decrypt it in a different AWS Region.

## Customer keys and AWS keys

**What are KMS keys that you create?**

The KMS keys that you create are [customer managed keys]().

**What does AWS Services that use KMS keys to encrypt your service resources do?**

AWS services that use KMS keys to encrypt your service resources often create the keys for you.

**What are KMS keys that AWS services create in your AWS account?**

KMS keys that AWS services create in your AWS account are [AWS managed keys]().

**What are KMS keys that AWS services create in a service account?**

KMS keys that AWS services create in a service account are [AWS owned keys]().

## Customer keys and AWS keys

**Can Customer managed key view KMS key metadata?**

- [x] Yes
- [] No

**Can AWS managed key view KMS key metadata?**

- [x] Yes
- [] No

**Can AWS owned key view KMS key metadata?**

- [] Yes
- [x] No

**Can Customer managed key manage KMS key?**

- [x] Yes
- [] No

**Can AWS managed key manage KMS key?**

- [] Yes
- [x] No

**Can AWS owned key manage KMS key?**

- [] Yes
- [x] No

**Is Customer managed key used only for my AWS account?**

- [x] Yes
- [] No

**Is AWS managed key used only for my AWS account??**

- [x] Yes
- [] No

**Is AWS owned key used only for my AWS account??**

- [] Yes
- [x] No

...

## Customer managed keys

**What do you have full control off with Customer managed keys?**

You have full control over these KMS keys, including

* establishing and maintining their [key policies](), and grants
* [enabling and disabling] them
* rotating their cryptographic material
* adding tags
* creating aliases that refer to the KMS keys
* scheduling the KMS keys for deletion

**Where do Customer managed keys appear?**

Customer managed keys appear on the **Customer managed keys** page of the AWS Management Console for AWS KMS.

