# Get started

## Step 1: Pick a template

**What is the only section required for a template?**

Only the `Resources` section is required.

**How does the resource declaration begin?**

The resource declaration begins with a string that specifies the logical name for the resource.

## Step 2: Make sure you have prepared any required items for the stack

**What do you have to do before creating a stack from a template?**

Before you create a stack from a template, you must ensure that all dependent resources that the template requires are available.

**What can a template use or refer?**

A template can use or refer to both existing AWS resources and resources declared in the template itself.

**What takes care of checking references to resources in the template?**

CloudFormation takes care of checking references to resources in the template and also checks references to existing resources to ensure that they exist in the region where you are creating the stack.

**What does happen if a template refers to a dependent resource that doesn't exist?**

If your template refers to a dependent resource that doesn't exist, stack creation fails.

## Step 3: Create the stack

1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the AWS CloudFormation console
2. Choose **Create Stack**.
3. 

```
Note
AWS CloudFormation templates that are stored in an S3 bucket must be accessible to the user who is creating the stack, and must be located in the same Region as the stack that is being created. Therefore, if the S3 bucket is located in the `aws-region` Region, the stack must also be created in `aws-region`.
```

## Step 4: Monitor the progress of stack creation

**To view the events for the stack**

1. On the CloudFormation console, select the stack `MyWPTestStack` in the list.
2. In the stack details pane, choose the **Events** tab.

## Step 5: Use your stack resources

## Step 6: Clean up

**To delete the stack and its resources**

1. From the CloudFormation console, select the stack.
2. Choose **Delete Stack**
3. In the confirmation message that appears, choose **Yes, Delete**.

