# Learn template basics

## What is an AWS CloudFormation template?

A template is a declaration of the AWS resources that make up a stack.

## Resources: Hello Bucket!

**What does Resources object contain?**

The Resources object contains a list of resource objects.

**What does a resource declaration contain?**

A resource declaration contains the resource's attributes, which are themselves declared as child objects.

**What attribut must a resource have?**

A resource must have a `Type` attribute, which defines the kind of AWS resource you want to create. E.g.:

AWS::*ProductIdentifier*::*ResourceType*

For example, the resource type for an Amazon S3 bucket is `AWS::S3::Bucket`.

**YAML**

```
Resources:
  HelloBucket:
    Type: 'AWS::S3::Bucket'
```

**What do resource declarations use to specify the information used to create a resource?**

Resource declarations use a `Properties` attribute to specify the information used to create a resource.

## Resource properties and using resources together

**What you can use to refer to an identifying property of a resource?**

You can use the [Ref function]() to refer to an identifying property of a resource.

## Receiving user input using input parameters

**Where do you declare parameters?**

You declare parameters in a template's Parameters object.

**What does a parameter contain?**

A parameter contains a list of attributes that define its value and constraints against its value.

**What is the only attribute required for a parameter?**

The only required attribute is Type, which can be:
* String
* Number
* AWS-specific type.

**What does the Description attribute is for?**

You can also add a Description attribute that tells a user more about what kind of value they should specify.

Example:
```yaml
Parameters:
  KeyName:
    Description: Name of an existing EC2 KeyPair to enable SSH access into
```

**What does CloudFormation do for parameters with default values?**

For parameters with default values, CloudFormation uses the default values unless users specify another value.

**What are the users required to do if you omit the default attribute?**

If you omit the default attribute, suers are required to specify a value for that parameter.

**How can you validate the value of a parameter?**

To validate the value of a parameter, you can declare constraints or specify an AWS-specific parameter type.

**Do users must specify a key name value at stack creation?**

- [x] Yes
- [] No

Users must specify a key name value at stack creation.

**What happens if users don't specify a key name value at stack creation?**

If they don't, CloudFormation fails to create the stack and throws an exception: `Parameters: [KeyName] must have values.`

**What is recommended for referencing sensitive information that is stored and managed outside of CloudFormation?**

Rather than embedding sensitive information directly in your CloudFormation templates, we recommend you use dynamic parameters in the stack template to reference sensitive information that is stored and managed outside of CloudFormation, such as in the AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store or AWS Secrets Manager.

## Specifying conditional values using mappings

**What is the `AWS::Region` pseudo parameter?**

The `AWS::Region` pseudo parameter is a value that CloudFormation resolves as the region where the stack is created.

**When are pseudo parameters resolved by CloudFormation?**

Pseudo parameters are resolved by CloudFormation when you create the stack.

**What does mappings enable you to use?**

Mappings enable you to use an input value as a condition that determines another value.

e.g.:
```yaml
Parameters:
  KeyName:
    Description: Name of an existing EC2 KeyPair to enable SSH access to the instance
    Type: String
Mappings:
  RegionMap:
    us-east-1:
      AMI: ami-76f0061f
    us-east-2:
      AMI: ami-655a0a20
    ...
Resources:
  Ec2Instance:
    Type: 'AWS::EC2::Instance'
    Properties:
      KeyName: !Ref KeyName
      ImageId: !FindInMap
        - RegionMap
        - !Ref 'AWS::Region'
        - AMI
      UserData: !Base64 '80'
```

## Constructed values and output values

**What does the Outputs object contain?**

The Outputs object in the template contains declarations for the values that you want to have available after the stack is created.

**What is an output convenient for?**

An output is a convenient way to capture important information about your resources or input parameters.

**How can you view output values?**

You can view output values in the Outputs tab of the CloudFormation console or by using the `aws cloudformation describe-stacks` command.
