# Walkthrough: Updating a stack

## A simple application

## Create the initial stack

## Update the application

**To update the stack from the AWS Management Console**

1. Log in to the AWS CloudFormation console, at:
[https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation).
2. On the AWS CloudFormation dashboard, choose the stack you created previously, and then choose **Update Stack**
3. In the **Update Stack** wizard, on the **Select Template** screen, select **Upload a template to Amazon S3**, select the modified template, and then choose **Next**.
4. On the **Options** screen, choose **Next**.
5. 

## Updating Auto Scaling groups

**Does AWS CloudFormation provide synchronization or serialization across the Amazon EC2 instances in an Auto Scaling group?**

- [] Yes
- [x] No

**What will happen if the cfn-hup changes run on all Amazon EC2 instances in the Auto Scaling group at the same time?**

If the cfn-hup changes run on all Amazon EC2 instances in the Auto Scaling group at the same time, your service might be unavailable during the update.

**What may happen if the cfn-hup changes run at different times?**

If the cfn-hup changes run at different times, old and new versions of the software may be running at the same.

**What should cosider to do to avoid the issues above?**

To avoid these issues, consider forcing a rolling update on your instances in the Auto Scaling group.

## Changing resource properties

### Update the instance type

### Update the AMI on an Amazon EC2 instance

**What must CloudFormation do to make a change to an immutable property?**

In order to make a change to an immutable property, AWS CloudFormation must launch a replacement resource.

**What happens to the old resource after all new resources are created?**

When all new resources are created, the old resource is deleted, a process known as UPDATE_CLEANUP.

**What description does the events in the Event table contain to indicate that a resource was replaced?**

The events in the Event table contain a description "Requested update has a change to an immutable property and hence creating a new physical resource"

**To update the AMI for an instance on your stack**

[investigate further]

## Update the Amazon EC2 launch configuration for an Auto Scaling group

**Where is the configuration of the Amazon EC2 instances is encapsulated with Auto Scaling resources?**

With Auto Scaling resources, the configuration of the Amazon EC2 instances, such as the instance type or the AMI ID is encapsulated in the Auto Scaling launch configuration.

**Does changing the launch configuration impact any of the running Amazon EC2 instances in the Auto Scaling group?**

- [] Yes
- [x] No

**What does an updated launch configuration affect to?**

An updated launch configuration applies only to new instances that are created after the update.

## Adding resource properties

## Change the stack's resources

## Availability and impact considerations

Before you make any changs, you should consider these questions:

1. How does the update affect the resource itself? To understand the impact of updates, you should check the documentation for the specific resources.

2. Is the change mutable or immutable? During stack reconfiguration, your application will not be fully operational.

